---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# General Animator

The animation methods introduced in this section are based on `MilInstantAnimator`, also referred to as the general animator.

This subsection will go over additional mechanisms of the general animator. Unless otherwise noted with an “*”, the methods mentioned below follow a fluent interface design, meaning the method itself returns a `MilInstantAnimator`.

For example, methods like `Then`, `ThenOneByOne`, and `And` mentioned in the previous sections are part of the fluent interface. This means you can freely chain method calls on a `MilInstantAnimator` instance, like so:

```csharp
MAni.Make(
	...
).MethodA(...)
.MethodB(...)
.MethodC(
	...
).Play();
```

## Lifecycle

By default, the general animator will automatically stop playback when the current scene is unloaded, preventing animation operations from continuing on destroyed objects.

If you want the animator to persist through scene changes—for example, when animating an object marked with `DontDestroyOnLoad`—you can call:

```csharp
DontStopOnLoad()
```

## Playback Control

Enable looping for the animator:

```csharp
EnableLooping()
```

Pause the animator*:

```csharp
Pause()
```

Stop the animator*:

```csharp
Stop()
```

Stop the animator and revert changes it applied*:

```csharp
Reset()
```

## Time Source

By default, the general animator uses `UnscaledTime` to update animations, which means it is **not** affected by `Time.timeScale`.

If you want it to be affected by `timeScale`, use:

```csharp
SetTimeSource(TimeSource.ScaledTime);
```

## Reset Mode

When the animation starts from the beginning, the general animator will automatically call `Reset()`. The extent of reverting applied changes depends on the “Reset Mode”.

There are two reset modes:

* `ResetToOriginalState` (default)

  This mode restores **the properties modified by the animator** to the state recorded at the start of playback.

* `ResetToInitialState`

  This mode restores **the properties modified by the animator** to the state defined by the animations at timestamp 0s.

You can set the reset mode using:

```csharp
UsingResetMode(AnimationResetMode.ResetToInitialState);
```

:::warning

* Animations without a start value will always reset using `ResetToOriginalState`, regardless of the `ResetToInitialState` setting.
* Animations with blending mode `Additive` will always reset using `ResetToOriginalState`, regardless of the `ResetToInitialState` setting.
* Since the `Play()` method submits animation tasks to the animator and they begin in the next frame, a situation may occur where a Canvas appears before animations apply, briefly showing its raw state. To avoid this, you can:

  1. Use `PlayImmidiate()` to apply animations in the current frame.
  2. Use `ResetToInitialState` as the reset mode. While the animation still starts on the next frame, the reset takes effect immediately, transitioning the state to the 0s animation target to avoid a visual glitch.

:::

## Reusing Animators with No Start Value

As explained in the reset mode section, if you reuse an animator that contains animations without a start value, it will reset the object's properties to the state before the animation started—likely not the intended result.

In this case, you should explicitly pass `revertToChanges` as `false` when calling `Play` to prevent resetting changes made by such animations:

```csharp
Play(null, false);
```

## Delay the Previous Animation Group

Besides `Then`, `ThenOneByOne`, and `And`, there is one more method for describing animation flow: `Delayed`.

It delays the immediate preceding animation group by the specified number of seconds. For example:

```csharp
MAni.Make(
	1f / ballSpriteRender.MQuad(x => x.color, Color.clear, Color.white),
	1f / music.MQuad(x => x.volume, 0f, 1f)
).Then(
	2f / ballTransform.MQuad(x => x.position, Vector3.zero, Vector3.one * 3f),
	1f + 0.5f / ballTransform.MQuad(x => x.localScale, Vector3.one, Vector3.one * 2f)
).Delayed(1f)
.ThenOneByOne(
	1f / camera.MQuad(x => x.fieldOfView, 6f, 4.5f),
	1f / camera.MQuad(x => x.localEulerAngles, Vector3.zero, new Vector3(0, 0, 20f))
).Play();
```

is equivalent to:

```csharp
MAni.Make(
	1f / ballSpriteRender.MQuad(x => x.color, Color.clear, Color.white),
	1f / music.MQuad(x => x.volume, 0f, 1f)
).Then(
	// Note the offset changes for this group
	1f + 2f / ballTransform.MQuad(x => x.position, Vector3.zero, Vector3.one * 3f),
	2f + 0.5f / ballTransform.MQuad(x => x.localScale, Vector3.one, Vector3.one * 2f)
).ThenOneByOne(
	1f / camera.MQuad(x => x.fieldOfView, 6f, 4.5f),
	1f / camera.MQuad(x => x.localEulerAngles, Vector3.zero, new Vector3(0, 0, 20f))
).Play();
```
